duckyscript3_beta_test.md, before:

# duckyScript 3 Public Beta Test

[Get duckyPad](https://www.tindie.com/products/21984/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

----

Welcome to **duckyScript 3** beta test!

duckyScript 3 gives duckyPad a big boost in capability. Highlights include:

* Variables, `IF` statements, `WHILE` loops, functions, and more!

* Print to OLED screen

* Read button status

* Many optimisations and bug fixes

![Alt text](resources/pics/ds3.png)

This guide is a bit long, but should cover everything you need. So please take some time to read through!

## What's New

duckyScript 3 was released by [Hak5](https://docs.hak5.org/hak5-usb-rubber-ducky/) in late 2022.

It is now much closer to a **general-purpose language**, with:

* Variables

* Conditional Statements

* Loops 

* Functions

* Math & Logical Operators

As a result, you can now write much more elaborate scripts for your needs!

-----

* **New commands** for **printing to OLED screen** and **reading button status**

* **Backwards compatible** with existing scripts (or at least should!)

* Improved performance

* More detailed syntax check error reports

* General cleanup and bug fixes

## Instructions

* [Click me to download the beta firmware](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/raw/master/firmware/beta_1.0.0_duckyscript3.dfu)

* [Follow this guide](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md#usb-firmware-updates) to update your duckyPad, use the file you just downloaded. You can go back at any time.

* [Head here, scroll down and download](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/releases/tag/1.0.0) the new beta configurator software.

* Launch and use it as usual!

* [Try this script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/master/resources/duckyscirpt_3_test_script.txt) for a demo of new features. Select all and copy paste everything as-is into the configurator.

* Read the **rest of this guide** and try out the new commands yourself!

* Loading and saving might take a bit longer at first, but should be faster afterwards.

* Any issues or questions? Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in [Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`

## Table of Contents

- [Limitations](#limitations)

- [New Commands](#new-commands)

    - [C-style comments](#c-style-comments)

    - [Constants](#constants)

    - [Variables](#variables)

    - [Operators](#operators)

    - [Conditional Statements](#conditional-statements)

    - [Loops](#loops)

    - [Functions](#functions)

    - [OLED Commands](#oled-commands)

    - [RGB LED Commands](#rgb-led-commands)

    - [Reserved Variables](#reserved-variables)

    - [Reading Buttons](#reading-buttons)

    - [Randomisation](#randomisation)

- [Questions or Comments?](#questions-or-comments)

## Limitations

### Bugs!

This is a huge update, so expect bugs, especially at this stage.

### Missing Commands

As duckyPad is more about macro scripting than pentesting, commands for payload management and data exfiltration are not yet implemented.

### Bytecode Compiler

With much increased complexity, it is no longer practical to process everything on-device.

As a result, duckyScript3 is now compiled into **bytecode** and executed on a **virtual stack machine**.

The configurator takes care of everything, so no need to worry about it.

However, if you want to manually edit the SD card, you'll need to compile the script and copy over the binary too.

## New Commands

First of all, [existing duckyScript rules](duckyscript_info.md) still apply, so take a look if you need a refresher.

Also, feel free to check out [official documentation](https://docs.hak5.org/hak5-usb-rubber-ducky/) for more info.

### C-style comments

In addition to `REM`, You can now also use `//` at the beginning of a line for comments!

### Constants

You can use `DEFINE` to, well, define a constant.

It can be either **integer** or **string**.

The content is **replaced AS-IS** during pre-processing, very much like `#define` in C.

```
DEFINE MY_EMAIL example@gmail.com
DEFINE MY_AGE 69

STRING My email is MY_EMAIL!
STRING I'm MY_AGE years old! 
```

Internally, `TRUE` is defined as `1`, and `FALSE` is defined as `0`.

### Variables

You can declare a variable using `VAR` command:

```
// Declaration
VAR $spam = 0
VAR $eggs = 10

// Assignment
$spam = 20
```

Variables must start with dollar sign `$`.

Variables are **unsigned 16-bit integers**, and can hold values from **0 to 65535**.

All variables have **global scope**, and can be referenced anywhere in the script.

They can be printed with `STRING`, `STRINGLN`, and (spoiler alert!)`OLED_PRINT` commands.

```
STRING The value is: $spam
```

### Operators

You can perform operations on constants and variables.

#### Mathematics

| Operator |   Name  |
|:--------:|:----------:|
|     =    | Assignment |
|     +    |     Add    |
|     -    |  Subtract  |
|     *    |  Multiply  |
|     /    |   Divide   |
|     %    |   Modulus  |
|     ^    |  Exponent  |

Example:

```
$spam = 2+3
$spam = $eggs * 10
```

#### Comparison

| Operator |        Name        |
|:--------:|:---------------------:|
|    ==    |         Equal         |
|    !=    |       Not equal       |
|     >    |      Greater than     |
|     <    |       Less than       |
|    >=    | Greater than or equal |
|    <=    |   Less than or equal  |

All comparisons evaluate to **either 0 or 1**.

So if we have:

```
$spam = 5
$eggs = 10
```

Then `$spam == $eggs` evaluates to 0, `$spam <= $eggs` evaluates to 1, and so on.

#### Logical 

| Operator |          Name         | Comment                                                |
|:--------:|:---------------------:|--------------------------------------------------------|
|    &&    |      Logical AND      | Evaluates to 1 if BOTH side are non-zero, otherwise 0. |
|   \|\|   |       Logical OR      | Evaluates to 1 if ANY side is non-zero, otherwise 0.   |

So if we have:

```
$spam = 5
$eggs = 0
```

Then `$spam && $eggs` evaluates to 0, `$spam || $eggs` evaluates to 1, and so on.

### Conditional Statements

`IF` statement is used to conditionally execute code.

At simplest, it involves `IF expression THEN`, and `END_IF`:

```
IF $spam > 0 THEN
	STRING spam is non-zero!
END_IF
```

The code inside is executed if the **expression evaluates to non-zero**.

Indent doesn't matter, feel free to add them for a cleaner look.

#### `ELSE IF` and `ELSE`

You can use them for additional checks.

If the first `IF` evaluate to 0, `ELSE IF`s are checked and executed if condition is met.

If none of the conditions are met, then code inside `ELSE` is executed.

```
VAR $spam = 5

IF $spam == 0 THEN
	STRING spam is zero!
ELSE IF $spam == 1 THEN
	STRING spam is one!
ELSE
	STRING spam is none of those!
END_IF
```

### Loops

You can use `WHILE` loops to repeat instructions until a certain condition is met.

Syntax:

```
WHILE expression
	code to repeat
END_WHILE
```

If `expression` evaluates to zero, the code is skipped. Otherwise the code inside is repeated.

This simple example loops 3 times.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE $i < 3
	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
	$i = $i + 1
END_WHILE
```

```
Counter is 0!
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
```

#### `BREAK`

Use `BREAK` to **exit a loop** immediately.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE TRUE
	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
	$i = $i + 1

	IF $i == 3 THEN
		BREAK
	END_IF
END_WHILE
```
```
Counter is 0!
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
```

#### `CONTINUE`

Use `CONTINUE` to **jump to start of the loop** immediately.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE $i < 5
	$i = $i + 1

	IF $i == 3 THEN
		CONTINUE
	END_IF

	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
END_WHILE
```

Here when `$count` is 3, it will skip printing and start from beginning instead.

```
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
Counter is 4!
Counter is 5!
```

### Functions

Functions let you run a block of code efficiently instead of copy pasting.

Syntax:

```
FUNCTION func_name()
	code
END_FUNCTION
```

You can use **`RETURN`** to exit a function early.

Arguments and return values are NOT supported, use global variables instead.

Simple example:

```
FUNCTION print_info():
	STRING My email is example@gmail.com
	STRING I'm 69 years old!
END_FUNCTION

// call it
print_info()
```

### OLED Commands

#### `OLED_CURSOR x y`

Set where to print on screen.

`x` and `y` are coordinates in pixels. The characters prints from **top-left** corner.

`x` must be between `0` and `127`

`y` must be between `0` and `63`

#### `OLED_PRINT`

`OLED_PRINT hello world!` 

Prints the message into display buffer at current cursor location.

#### `OLED_CLEAR`

Clears the display buffer.

#### `OLED_UPDATE`

Actually update the OLED.

You should use `OLED_CLEAR`, `OLED_CURSOR`, and `OLED_PRINT` to set up the display, then use this to print it.

#### `OLED_RESTORE`

Restore the default profile/key name display. `OLED_UPDATE` **NOT NEEDED**.

### RGB LED Commands

#### `SWC_SET n r g b`

Change LED color 

Set `n` to 0 for current key.

Set `n` between 1 to 15 for a particular key.

`r, g, b` between 0 and 255 inclusive.

#### `SWC_FILL r g b`

Change color of **ALL** LEDs.

`r, g, b` between 0 and 255 inclusive.

#### `SWC_RESET n`

Resets the key to default background color.

Set `n` to 0 for current key.

Set `n` from 1 to 15 for a particular key.

Set `n` to 99 for all keys.

### Reserved Variables

There are a few **reserved variables** that are always available.

You can read or write (RW) to them to adjust settings. Some are read-only (RO).

##### `$_DEFAULTDELAY` (RW)

##### `$_DEFAULTCHARDELAY` (RW)

##### `$_CHARJITTER` (RW)

Write to those variables to change the settings.

##### `$_RANDOM_MIN` (RW)

Lower bound of random number generator (RNG).

##### `$_RANDOM_MAX` (RW)

Upper bound of RNG.

##### `$_RANDOM_INT` (RW)

Get a random number between the upper and lower bound.

##### `$_TIME_MS` (RO)

Get current time in **milliseconds**.

##### `$_READKEY` (RO)

Get the key that is being pressed.

Returns 0 if no key is pressed. 1 to 17 otherwise.

##### `$_KEYPRESS_COUNT` (RO)

Get how many times the current key has been pressed.

### Reading Buttons

Reading the reserved variable `$_READKEY` returns the currently pressed key.

The value is 0 if no key is pressed. 1 to 17 otherwise.

Normally you would read this variable in a loop until it is non-zero:

```
VAR $k = 0

WHILE $k == 0
    $k = $_READKEY
    DELAY 50
END_WHILE

STRINGLN I pressed key $k!
```

If reading button multiple times, use `BCLR` command inbetween to clear the button status buffer.

This way it won't trigger again right away.

### Randomisation

Read from `$_RANDOM_INT` to get a random number.

By default, it is between 0 and 65535.

You can change the upper and lower bounds (inclusive) by writing to `_RANDOM_MAX` and `_RANDOM_MIN`.

```
VAR $i = 0
$_RANDOM_MIN = 0
$_RANDOM_MAX = 100

WHILE $i < 5
    STRINGLN Random number: $_RANDOM_INT
    $i = $i + 1
END_WHILE
```

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in [official discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), DM me on discord `dekuNukem#6998`, or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com` for inquires.

## Project Pages

[Main page](README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly_guide.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[Common issues / Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Updates and Version History](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md)

[Make Your Own Keymap](./keymap_instructions.md)

[Manual Setup](./manual_setup.md)

[Build a duckyPad Yourself](build_it_yourself.md)

[Kickstarter Backer Acknowledgments](kickstarter_backers.md)

Commit message:

mentioned how to exit loop[

duckyscript3_beta_test.md, after:

# duckyScript 3 Public Beta Test

[Get duckyPad](https://www.tindie.com/products/21984/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

----

Welcome to **duckyScript 3** beta test!

duckyScript 3 gives duckyPad a big boost in capability. Highlights include:

* Variables, `IF` statements, `WHILE` loops, functions, and more!

* Print to OLED screen

* Read button status

* Many optimisations and bug fixes

![Alt text](resources/pics/ds3.png)

This guide is a bit long, but should cover everything you need. So please take some time to read through!

## What's New

duckyScript 3 was released by [Hak5](https://docs.hak5.org/hak5-usb-rubber-ducky/) in late 2022.

It is now much closer to a **general-purpose language**, with:

* Variables

* Conditional Statements

* Loops 

* Functions

* Math & Logical Operators

As a result, you can now write much more elaborate scripts for your needs!

-----

* **New commands** for **printing to OLED screen** and **reading button status**

* **Backwards compatible** with existing scripts (or at least should!)

* Improved performance

* More detailed syntax check error reports

* General cleanup and bug fixes

## Instructions

* [Click me to download the beta firmware](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/raw/master/firmware/beta_1.0.0_duckyscript3.dfu)

* [Follow this guide](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md#usb-firmware-updates) to update your duckyPad, use the file you just downloaded. You can go back at any time.

* [Head here, scroll down and download](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/releases/tag/1.0.0) the new beta configurator software.

* Launch and use it as usual!

* [Try this script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad/master/resources/duckyscirpt_3_test_script.txt) for a demo of new features. Select all and copy paste everything as-is into the configurator.

* Read the **rest of this guide** and try out the new commands yourself!

* Loading and saving might take a bit longer at first, but should be faster afterwards.

* Any issues or questions? Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in [Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`

## Table of Contents

- [Limitations](#limitations)

- [New Commands](#new-commands)

    - [C-style comments](#c-style-comments)

    - [Constants](#constants)

    - [Variables](#variables)

    - [Operators](#operators)

    - [Conditional Statements](#conditional-statements)

    - [Loops](#loops)

    - [Functions](#functions)

    - [OLED Commands](#oled-commands)

    - [RGB LED Commands](#rgb-led-commands)

    - [Reserved Variables](#reserved-variables)

    - [Reading Buttons](#reading-buttons)

    - [Randomisation](#randomisation)

- [Questions or Comments?](#questions-or-comments)

## Limitations

### Bugs!

This is a huge update, so expect bugs, especially at this stage.

### Missing Commands

As duckyPad is more about macro scripting than pentesting, commands for payload management and data exfiltration are not yet implemented.

### Bytecode Compiler

With much increased complexity, it is no longer practical to process everything on-device.

As a result, duckyScript3 is now compiled into **bytecode** and executed on a **virtual stack machine**.

The configurator takes care of everything, so no need to worry about it.

However, if you want to manually edit the SD card, you'll need to compile the script and copy over the binary too.

## New Commands

First of all, [existing duckyScript rules](duckyscript_info.md) still apply, so take a look if you need a refresher.

Also, feel free to check out [official documentation](https://docs.hak5.org/hak5-usb-rubber-ducky/) for more info.

### C-style comments

In addition to `REM`, You can now also use `//` at the beginning of a line for comments!

### Constants

You can use `DEFINE` to, well, define a constant.

It can be either **integer** or **string**.

The content is **replaced AS-IS** during pre-processing, very much like `#define` in C.

```
DEFINE MY_EMAIL example@gmail.com
DEFINE MY_AGE 69

STRING My email is MY_EMAIL!
STRING I'm MY_AGE years old! 
```

Internally, `TRUE` is defined as `1`, and `FALSE` is defined as `0`.

### Variables

You can declare a variable using `VAR` command:

```
// Declaration
VAR $spam = 0
VAR $eggs = 10

// Assignment
$spam = 20
```

Variables must start with dollar sign `$`.

Variables are **unsigned 16-bit integers**, and can hold values from **0 to 65535**.

All variables have **global scope**, and can be referenced anywhere in the script.

They can be printed with `STRING`, `STRINGLN`, and (spoiler alert!)`OLED_PRINT` commands.

```
STRING The value is: $spam
```

### Operators

You can perform operations on constants and variables.

#### Mathematics

| Operator |   Name  |
|:--------:|:----------:|
|     =    | Assignment |
|     +    |     Add    |
|     -    |  Subtract  |
|     *    |  Multiply  |
|     /    |   Divide   |
|     %    |   Modulus  |
|     ^    |  Exponent  |

Example:

```
$spam = 2+3
$spam = $eggs * 10
```

#### Comparison

| Operator |        Name        |
|:--------:|:---------------------:|
|    ==    |         Equal         |
|    !=    |       Not equal       |
|     >    |      Greater than     |
|     <    |       Less than       |
|    >=    | Greater than or equal |
|    <=    |   Less than or equal  |

All comparisons evaluate to **either 0 or 1**.

So if we have:

```
$spam = 5
$eggs = 10
```

Then `$spam == $eggs` evaluates to 0, `$spam <= $eggs` evaluates to 1, and so on.

#### Logical 

| Operator |          Name         | Comment                                                |
|:--------:|:---------------------:|--------------------------------------------------------|
|    &&    |      Logical AND      | Evaluates to 1 if BOTH side are non-zero, otherwise 0. |
|   \|\|   |       Logical OR      | Evaluates to 1 if ANY side is non-zero, otherwise 0.   |

So if we have:

```
$spam = 5
$eggs = 0
```

Then `$spam && $eggs` evaluates to 0, `$spam || $eggs` evaluates to 1, and so on.

### Conditional Statements

`IF` statement is used to conditionally execute code.

At simplest, it involves `IF expression THEN`, and `END_IF`:

```
IF $spam > 0 THEN
	STRING spam is non-zero!
END_IF
```

The code inside is executed if the **expression evaluates to non-zero**.

Indent doesn't matter, feel free to add them for a cleaner look.

#### `ELSE IF` and `ELSE`

You can use them for additional checks.

If the first `IF` evaluate to 0, `ELSE IF`s are checked and executed if condition is met.

If none of the conditions are met, then code inside `ELSE` is executed.

```
VAR $spam = 5

IF $spam == 0 THEN
	STRING spam is zero!
ELSE IF $spam == 1 THEN
	STRING spam is one!
ELSE
	STRING spam is none of those!
END_IF
```

### Loops

You can use `WHILE` loops to repeat instructions until a certain condition is met.

Syntax:

```
WHILE expression
	code to repeat
END_WHILE
```

If `expression` evaluates to zero, the code is skipped. Otherwise the code inside is repeated.

This simple example loops 3 times.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE $i < 3
	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
	$i = $i + 1
END_WHILE
```

```
Counter is 0!
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
```

To exit an infinite loop, you can [check button status](#reading-buttons), or just press the RESET button:

![Alt text](resources/pics/dfu_buttons_new.jpg)


#### `BREAK`

Use `BREAK` to **exit a loop** immediately.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE TRUE
	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
	$i = $i + 1

	IF $i == 3 THEN
		BREAK
	END_IF
END_WHILE
```
```
Counter is 0!
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
```

#### `CONTINUE`

Use `CONTINUE` to **jump to start of the loop** immediately.

```
VAR $i = 0
WHILE $i < 5
	$i = $i + 1

	IF $i == 3 THEN
		CONTINUE
	END_IF

	STRINGLN Counter is $i!
END_WHILE
```

Here when `$count` is 3, it will skip printing and start from beginning instead.

```
Counter is 1!
Counter is 2!
Counter is 4!
Counter is 5!
```

### Functions

Functions let you run a block of code efficiently instead of copy pasting.

Syntax:

```
FUNCTION func_name()
	code
END_FUNCTION
```

You can use **`RETURN`** to exit a function early.

Arguments and return values are NOT supported, use global variables instead.

Simple example:

```
FUNCTION print_info():
	STRING My email is example@gmail.com
	STRING I'm 69 years old!
END_FUNCTION

// call it
print_info()
```

### OLED Commands

#### `OLED_CURSOR x y`

Set where to print on screen.

`x` and `y` are coordinates in pixels. The characters prints from **top-left** corner.

`x` must be between `0` and `127`

`y` must be between `0` and `63`

#### `OLED_PRINT`

`OLED_PRINT hello world!` 

Prints the message into display buffer at current cursor location.

#### `OLED_CLEAR`

Clears the display buffer.

#### `OLED_UPDATE`

Actually update the OLED.

You should use `OLED_CLEAR`, `OLED_CURSOR`, and `OLED_PRINT` to set up the display, then use this to print it.

#### `OLED_RESTORE`

Restore the default profile/key name display. `OLED_UPDATE` **NOT NEEDED**.

### RGB LED Commands

#### `SWC_SET n r g b`

Change LED color 

Set `n` to 0 for current key.

Set `n` between 1 to 15 for a particular key.

`r, g, b` between 0 and 255 inclusive.

#### `SWC_FILL r g b`

Change color of **ALL** LEDs.

`r, g, b` between 0 and 255 inclusive.

#### `SWC_RESET n`

Resets the key to default background color.

Set `n` to 0 for current key.

Set `n` from 1 to 15 for a particular key.

Set `n` to 99 for all keys.

### Reserved Variables

There are a few **reserved variables** that are always available.

You can read or write (RW) to them to adjust settings. Some are read-only (RO).

##### `$_DEFAULTDELAY` (RW)

##### `$_DEFAULTCHARDELAY` (RW)

##### `$_CHARJITTER` (RW)

Write to those variables to change the settings.

##### `$_RANDOM_MIN` (RW)

Lower bound of random number generator (RNG).

##### `$_RANDOM_MAX` (RW)

Upper bound of RNG.

##### `$_RANDOM_INT` (RW)

Get a random number between the upper and lower bound.

##### `$_TIME_MS` (RO)

Get current time in **milliseconds**.

##### `$_READKEY` (RO)

Get the key that is being pressed.

Returns 0 if no key is pressed. 1 to 17 otherwise.

##### `$_KEYPRESS_COUNT` (RO)

Get how many times the current key has been pressed.

### Reading Buttons

Reading the reserved variable `$_READKEY` returns the currently pressed key.

The value is 0 if no key is pressed. 1 to 17 otherwise.

Normally you would read this variable in a loop until it is non-zero:

```
VAR $k = 0

WHILE $k == 0
    $k = $_READKEY
    DELAY 50
END_WHILE

STRINGLN I pressed key $k!
```

If reading button multiple times, use `BCLR` command inbetween to clear the button status buffer.

This way it won't trigger again right away.

### Randomisation

Read from `$_RANDOM_INT` to get a random number.

By default, it is between 0 and 65535.

You can change the upper and lower bounds (inclusive) by writing to `_RANDOM_MAX` and `_RANDOM_MIN`.

```
VAR $i = 0
$_RANDOM_MIN = 0
$_RANDOM_MAX = 100

WHILE $i < 5
    STRINGLN Random number: $_RANDOM_INT
    $i = $i + 1
END_WHILE
```

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in [official discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), DM me on discord `dekuNukem#6998`, or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com` for inquires.

## Project Pages

[Main page](README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly_guide.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[Common issues / Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Updates and Version History](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md)

[Make Your Own Keymap](./keymap_instructions.md)

[Manual Setup](./manual_setup.md)

[Build a duckyPad Yourself](build_it_yourself.md)

[Kickstarter Backer Acknowledgments](kickstarter_backers.md)
