kit_assembly_guide.md, before:

# duckyPad Assembly Guide

[Get duckyPad](https://www.tindie.com/products/21984/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

------

Thanks for purchasing duckyPad! Here is a short guide on how to put everything together.

## Recommended Tools

A small Phillips-head screwdriver (`+`shape) is needed, there should be one provided in the package.

A pair of pliers would make tightening the fasteners easier, but by no means required. You can use your hand just fine.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/tools.jpg)

## Handling Bare Circuit Boards

When handling the bare circuit board, remember to:

* Wash your hands first

* Always hold the circuit board by its edge

* Don't touch the components

The reason for hand-washing is to reduce the risk of static electricity(SE) on your body zapping the board and damage it, especially in dry weather.

By washing your hands, you release the existing SE through the metal water pipe, your hands are moist to prevent further SE build-up, and your clean hands won't leave greasy fingerprints all over the place, win-win-win!

Of course, your hands can't be dripping wet either, but that's just common sense.

## Assembly Steps

By now, you should have:

* 1x duckyPad circuit board

* 1x Front Plate

* 1x Back Plate

* 15x Cherry MX-style switches

* 15x Keycaps

* 4x Silicone Anti-slip Pad

* Fasteners

* microSD Card

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly1.jpeg)

You should have the following fasteners:

* 6x `8mm Screw`

* 8x `2.8mm Screw`

* 7x `2mm Standoff`

* 6x `4mm Standoff`

Be careful while handling them, if you drop one you'll never find it again!

Probably safer to leave them in the bag for now.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly3.jpeg)

Start by peeling off the protective cover on the front and back plate:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly2.jpeg)

Place the `Back Plate` in front of you like this. Note the orientation of the holes:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly4.jpeg)

Start from a hole in the middle, put a `8mm Screw` through the back side:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly5.jpeg)

Then screw on the `2mm Standoff`.

Don't over-tighten! Doing so might deform or crack the acrylic plate.

Finger-tight is OK, just make sure it's not loose and doesn't rattle.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly6.jpeg)

Do the same with all the holes **`EXCEPT the bottom right`**:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly7.jpeg)

Put a `2.8mm Screw` through that one:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly8.jpeg)

And install the `2mm Standoff`.

This is gonna be a PITA, but you'll eventually get it :) Careful not to drop the small parts. 

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly9.jpeg)

Now go wash your hands, grab the circuit board by its edge, line up and install as shown:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly10.jpeg)

Then install all 6 `4mm Standoffs`, moderately tighten.

Also install the `2.8mm Screw` on the lower right.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly11.jpeg)

Line up the `Front Plate`, and install the `2.8mm Screws`.

**`DO NOT`** tighten each screw as you install it! Put them all on loosely first, then tighten them one-by-one.

This ensures the plate is properly lined up. Again, don't over-tighten.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly12.jpeg)

Flip it over, clean the plate with a dry cloth if dirty, and stick on the anti-slip pads on each corner:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly13.jpeg)

Time to install the switches! duckyPad supports hot-swap, so no soldering is needed. 

Make sure the pins are straight, then line up with the holes, gently push until it clicks in place:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly14.jpeg)

Keycaps next! Note the orientation ("slope" side pointing left in this photo). Just push it down.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly15.jpeg)

All the keys should be lined up evenly. If not, try push down or wiggle it a little.

Finally, if it hasn't already been done, peel off the protective cover on the OLED screen:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/peel.jpg)

And you're done! Congratulations!

Head on down to the [Quick Start Guide](/getting_started.md) to see how to use it.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly16.jpeg)

## Table of Contents

[Main page](README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly_guide.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[Common issues / Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Updates and Version History](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md)

[Make Your Own Keymap](./keymap_instructions.md)

[Manual Setup](./manual_setup.md)

[Build a duckyPad Yourself](build_it_yourself.md)

[Kickstarter Backer Acknowledgments](kickstarter_backers.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), DM me on discord `dekuNukem#6998`, or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com` for inquires.

Commit message:

added information about switch pins, reseating OLED cable, and discord server

kit_assembly_guide.md, after:

# duckyPad Assembly Guide

[Get duckyPad](https://www.tindie.com/products/21984/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

------

Thanks for purchasing duckyPad! Here is a short guide on how to put everything together.

## Join Our Discord!

Feel free to join our [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) for discussions, asking questions, sharing scripts, and latest updates!

## Recommended Tools

A small Phillips-head screwdriver (`+`shape) is needed, there should be one provided in the package.

A pair of pliers would make tightening the fasteners easier, but by no means required. You can use your hand just fine.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/tools.jpg)

## Handling Bare Circuit Boards

When handling the bare circuit board, remember to:

* Wash your hands first

* Always hold the circuit board by its edge

* Don't touch the components

The reason for hand-washing is to reduce the risk of static electricity(SE) on your body zapping the board and damage it, especially in dry weather.

By washing your hands, you release the existing SE through the metal water pipe, your hands are moist to prevent further SE build-up, and your clean hands won't leave greasy fingerprints all over the place, win-win-win!

Of course, your hands can't be dripping wet either, but that's just common sense.

## Assembly Steps

By now, you should have:

* 1x duckyPad circuit board

* 1x Front Plate

* 1x Back Plate

* 15x Cherry MX-style switches

* 15x Keycaps

* 4x Silicone Anti-slip Pad

* Fasteners

* microSD Card

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly1.jpeg)

You should have the following fasteners:

* 6x `8mm Screw`

* 8x `2.8mm Screw`

* 7x `2mm Standoff`

* 6x `4mm Standoff`

Be careful while handling them, if you drop one you'll never find it again!

Probably safer to leave them in the bag for now.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly3.jpeg)

Start by peeling off the protective cover on the front and back plate:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly2.jpeg)

Place the `Back Plate` in front of you like this. Note the orientation of the holes:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly4.jpeg)

Start from a hole in the middle, put a `8mm Screw` through the back side:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly5.jpeg)

Then screw on the `2mm Standoff`.

Don't over-tighten! Doing so might deform or crack the acrylic plate.

Finger-tight is OK, just make sure it's not loose and doesn't rattle.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly6.jpeg)

Do the same with all the holes **`EXCEPT the bottom right`**:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly7.jpeg)

Put a `2.8mm Screw` through that one:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly8.jpeg)

And install the `2mm Standoff`.

This is gonna be a PITA, but you'll eventually get it :) Careful not to drop the small parts. 

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly9.jpeg)

Now go wash your hands, grab the circuit board by its edge, line up and install as shown:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly10.jpeg)

Then install all 6 `4mm Standoffs`, moderately tighten.

Also install the `2.8mm Screw` on the lower right.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly11.jpeg)

Line up the `Front Plate`, and install the `2.8mm Screws`.

**`DO NOT`** tighten each screw as you install it! Put them all on loosely first, then tighten them one-by-one.

This ensures the plate is properly lined up. Again, don't over-tighten.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly12.jpeg)

Flip it over, clean the plate with a dry cloth if dirty, and stick on the anti-slip pads on each corner:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly13.jpeg)

Time to install the switches! duckyPad supports hot-swap, so no soldering is needed. 

* **Make sure the pins are straight!**

* **Make sure the pins are straight!** 

* **Make sure the pins are straight!**, otherwise you might damage the circuit board or the switch itself!

Then line up with the holes, **`gently push straight down`** until it clicks in place:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly14.jpeg)

Keycaps next! Note the orientation ("slope" side pointing left in this photo). Just push it down.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly15.jpeg)

All the keys should be lined up evenly. If not, try push down or wiggle it a little.

Finally, if it hasn't already been done, peel off the protective cover on the OLED screen:

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/peel.jpg)

And you're done! Congratulations!

Head on down to the [Quick Start Guide](/getting_started.md) to see how to use it.

![Alt text](resources/pics/assembly/assembly16.jpeg)

## Table of Contents

[Main page](README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly_guide.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[Common issues / Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Updates and Version History](firmware_updates_and_version_history.md)

[Make Your Own Keymap](./keymap_instructions.md)

[Manual Setup](./manual_setup.md)

[Build a duckyPad Yourself](build_it_yourself.md)

[Kickstarter Backer Acknowledgments](kickstarter_backers.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), DM me on discord `dekuNukem#6998`, or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com` for inquires.
